README.md, before:

# iobroker
Power Management with Sungrow PV Inverter, Hoval Heat Pump &amp; Shelly Meter &amp; Switches

![ioBroker Overview](img/iobroker_overview.drawio.png)

## PV system
  - Inverter: Sungrow SH20T with 3 MPP-Trackers
  - Battery: Sungrow SBR096 9.6 kWh
  - PV-Panels: 56x DAS Solar 445W Panels (2x strings with 19 panels, 1x string with 18 panels)

## Sungrow Modbus Integration
Since WiNet-S / WiNet-S2 does not provide reliable data until now we use the external RS485 connection.

- Model: [Waveshare RS485 to POE](https://www.waveshare.com/wiki/RS485_TO_POE_ETH_(B))
- Connection: SH20T "Logger" port on COM2 ![sungrow_com2_logger.png](img/sungrow_com2_logger.png)
- Settings: [Waveshare parameters](Waveshare-Modbus/parameters.md)

## Hoval Heat Pump
  - Model: Ultrascource B
  - Buffer: 300 lt

### Hoval CANbus Integration
The Hoval Modbus gateway seemed to be too expensive, so we decided to go for a CANbus gateway.
- Model: [Hoval CAN-Gateway](https://github.com/wladwnt/CAN-Gateway)

### SmartGrid
A Shelly 2-Channel Relay was used to control 2 Smart Grid inputs of the Howal Control Unit

Commit message:

add Hoval Smart Grid infos

README.md, after:

# iobroker
Power Management with Sungrow PV Inverter, Hoval Heat Pump &amp; Shelly Meter &amp; Switches

![ioBroker Overview](img/iobroker_overview.drawio.png)

## PV system
  - Inverter: Sungrow SH20T with 3 MPP-Trackers
  - Battery: Sungrow SBR096 9.6 kWh
  - PV-Panels: 56x DAS Solar 445W Panels (2x strings with 19 panels, 1x string with 18 panels)

## Sungrow Modbus Integration
Since WiNet-S / WiNet-S2 does not provide reliable data until now we use the external RS485 connection.

- Model: [Waveshare RS485 to POE](https://www.waveshare.com/wiki/RS485_TO_POE_ETH_(B))
- Connection: SH20T "Logger" port on COM2 ![sungrow_com2_logger.png](img/sungrow_com2_logger.png)
- Settings: [Waveshare parameters](Waveshare-Modbus/parameters.md)

## Hoval Heat Pump
  - Model: Ultrascource B
  - Buffer: 300 lt

### Hoval CANbus Integration
The Hoval Modbus gateway seemed to be too expensive, so we decided to go for a CANbus gateway.
- Model: [Hoval CAN-Gateway](https://github.com/wladwnt/CAN-Gateway)

### SmartGrid
Hoval Smart Grid Ready features following options:
  - `0` Normal
  - `1` Vorzugsbetrieb
  - `2` Sperrbetrieb
  - `3` Abnahmezwang

From [HovalSmartGrid.pdf](img/HovalSmartGrid.pdf):
![HovalSmartGridContacts](img/HovalSmartGridContacts.png)

A Shelly 2-Channel Relay was used to control 2 Smart Grid inputs of the Howal Control Unit. Before the inputs are usable they have to be defined:
  - set param=0;1;0;0;38013;w;Ausloeser_Smart_Grid_Funktion to `1` (= Eingangskontakte)
  - set param=0;1;0;0;30052;w;Zuo._Eing._SmartGrid_1 to `4` (= VE1)
  - set param=0;1;0;0;30053;w;Zuo._Eing._SmartGrid_2 to `5` (= VE2)

VE1 and VE2 are two ports on the Heatpump controller baord. **TODO**: Add picture 

:warning: Actually it should be possible to set the smart grid state through CANbus. I can see the registers:
  - param=0;1;0;0;38013;w;Ausloeser_Smart_Grid_Funktion;10;U8;1.000000;0.000000;
  - param=0;1;0;0;38012;w;Smart_Grid_ueber_Systembus;10;U8;1.000000;0.000000;
But nothing happens when I set the Ausloeser_Smart_Grid_Funktion to `2` (= Systembus) and Smart_Grid_ueber_Systembus to `1`, `2` or `3`. The  

If you managed to solve this problem please let me know.
